## Requirements vs Spesifications

- Now, we're going to differentiate the two ways you document functionality in a software requirement specification document. 

- The reason there are two ways to write these statements of what the system will do is that there are two audiences for that information. 

- The first audience is the user or the client, depending on whether or not they're the same person. 

- In many cases, the user isn't technical. And so would have a very difficult time talking with you about what they want the software to do. 

- They don't know the potential of what it can do. But we still need to provide some sort of information that explains what the system will do, so that the user is relatively assured that they get, at the end, what the client is paid for and it actually does what the user or client wanted them to do. 

- The second audience is the developing team. We also need to provide enough detail to allow the people making the solution, making the code know what the system should and shouldn't do. 

- Now, this is where things tend to get tricky. We use natural language, primarily because it allows for an easy communication protocol with our users. 

- No or very little, technical jargon should hopefully avoid some miscommunications. 

- But it's often not very precise. 

- Let me give you an example. Imagine that you're talking with a street vendor, they're selling drinks. You ask what they have. The merchant says, bottle of water or a cup of tea is a dollar. You tell the merchant, I'll take both. The merchant obliges and you put down a dollar, and start to walk away. Does that sound right to you? This is what's called an exclusive or. 

- The or in the case of the language here means one or the other, but not both. 

- How about this? I tell you that if you pass all the quizzes or pass all the assignments, then you pass the class.

- You then pass all the quizzes and you pass all the assignments, and I tell you that you failed the course.

- Would you be a bit upset by that? This is an inclusive or. 

- The or in this case means one or the other, or both and then there's the problem of people saying and when they mean or. 

- The moral of this story is that we need to be very careful of the language we use when developing these statements. So let's distinguish them a little bit. 

- User requirements are exactly what the user wants the solution to do in the user’s language. 

- Users do not want to log in though we want them to. They want the system to be secure to only allow them to say, post to Facebook on their behalf. 

- Logging in is the system specification. The required action of the system solution we're developing.

- System spec is the usually more precise or constraining statement of how the system will meet the user requirements. 

- This is still what the solution will do, not how, but it's how the system will meet the requirement. 

- Software design then takes this requirement specification and details that how. 

- Which modules will be constructed? Will it be object-oriented design and development? How do we make it happen? This still may not be clear, so let’s take a quick example. 

- Take this user requirement. We want to make a boat and sell it to the general public. We talked to some users to find out what they want, so that we can build what they want so we can make money. We can tell when a user can put our boat on a rack by themselves, but how do we constrain and specify our solution to make sure that happens? Because the generic statement, one person must be able to load the boat on a car rack doesn't really give our design team anything to go on. 

- So we specify the solution in such a way that our specification means that we have met the requirement here. Now, we have at least a partial list of things we must meet. And if we meet these things, we have met the user requirement or at least we think we have. This is another area of potential mistake. 

- Making assumptions about whether these specifications will translate into having met the requirement. 

- So you need to take care that these and only these are sufficient to meet the requirement. So we assume that if the boat's lighter than 100 pounds, that it has handles, that one person can load it onto the car rack.

- There is a slight, but important distinction between the requirements and the specification and it's never quite as easy to distinguish them in reality. 

- Real world users may very well give you specification level detail. So not all requirements need a lot of specification level detail to refine the intent. But a lot of time, it does need that refinement.


## An example of user requirement and system spesification

1. User requirement
    1. One person must be able to load the boat on the car rack

2. System spesification
    1. Boat must be lighter than 100lb (45.36 kg)
    2. Boat must have handles
    3. Car rack must be padded (boat slides onto rack easily)
    4. Etc.


## Notes

1. Requirements for the user, spesifications for the developer
2. Write your requirements in the user language
3. Write your spesifications in the system language
4. Be sure that your spesifications meet the requirements


## Questions and Answers

1. Which of the following are true about requirements and specifications? (Choose all that apply)
    1. Requirements are for users; specifications are for developers.
    2. Requirements shall be written in the user's language; system specifications shall be written in the system language.
    3. Specifications shall meet the requirements.

2. The following are the requirements and specifications of an online banking service. Which of the following can be categorized as (user) requirements?  Select two.
    1. The user shall be able to check the current balance of the checking accounts that he/she own.
    2. A user shall be able to use the online banking system securely.

3. The following are requirements and specifications of an online banking service. Which of the following can be categorized as system specifications?  Select two.
    1. Activate a login session when a user logs in, and maintain the session for 60 minutes unless the user who logged in has been inactive for more than 120 seconds.
    2. At the time a query is made to check the current balance of a checking account, the owner of the checking account shall be logged in.