## Software Architecture: Process


- Hi. Now, we're going to talk a little bit about software architecture process. 

- So, the software architecture design process looks a little bit like this. 
    - System structuring
    - Control modeling
    - Modular decomposition

- There's three major concerns when we start talking about design process. 

- System structuring refers to how the system is decomposed into these several principal subsystems and communications between those subsystems are then identified. 

- We're keying in particularly on things like the interfaces. As soon as we start to decompose or separate elements or components, large scale subsystems of our overall system, we have to start worrying about how they're going to continue to communicate now that we've separated them. 

- This is particularly important when you're going to then parallelize the development work, once you split them out, giving one component to one development team, another component to another development team and yet more to further development teams. 

- Having that interface as an agreed-upon contract is a very key component to making sure that it all works once it comes back together and the system structuring is part of that. 

- `Control modeling` then, is how architectures create a model of the control relationships between the different parts of the system that's established. 

- This is particularly true when we have these separate components dealing with the flow of control, not just the interfaces but the flow of control in communicating with each other, but how the software will work once it's running. 

- And then, modular decomposition is how we identify those subsystem partitions. 

- We are particularly looking at things like simplicity. We're looking for things like maintainability, reliability, security, all those kinds of quality attributes but also, we're worried about things like resource management, who needs to go where and what teams are best suited to handle what kind of responsibilities. 

- So, when we talk about subsystem versus modules, it's important here to note the distinction. Subsystems are still an independent system which could hold business value. 

    - Sub-system: independent system which holds business value
    - Module: component of a sub-system which cannot function as standalone systems

- It's not our full product but it's still some part of that product that, by itself, has business value and it can run completely independently, or, at the very least, can be developed entirely independently. 

- That's really what we're looking for when it comes to a subsystem and that's the primary goal for architecture. That's versus modules. 

- Module design's what we consider software design. That's a individual component of a subsystem which can't function as a standalone system or a standalone piece of the overall product. It doesn't, by itself, have business value. 

- You have to gather and integrate multiple modules to make up a subsystem. And, while the distinction may still be a little bit gray, don't feel alone in that. 

- That's not a cut and dried distinction for any developer or engineer. The key here is going to be, can it stand on its own? Another thing we care about at the architectural level is software quality attributes. 

    - Performance
    - Reliability
    - Testability
    - Security
    - Usability

- Now, you see a set listed here and we primarily refer to these as the "ilities", mainly because so many of them end in that same suffix like you see here. Each of these tends to be something that's associated with architecture. 

- It doesn't mean that it can't be associated with other stages in the process like requirements, design, or even implementation but it's something that we particularly focus on at the architectural stage. 

- You might debate me on usability here, and I think that that's fair, but let's look at security. There isn't much one can do at the design stage to affect security. 

- You're making class diagrams. Your deciding which methods to use. There aren't as many security concerns at that stage. 

- However, from an architectural perspective, you can talk about things like server configuration, which operating systems you'll use, how to separate vulnerable subsystems from others, and how to talk about installing the appropriate software and security tools alongside the software you're building in order to make the entire software product work. 

- When it comes to the architecture, we're typically talking about enterprise-level planning. 

- So, where will this eventual system fit with everything else? How does it fit within the current security constraints? How does it fit within the current performance constraints? What about hardware? How are we going to procure that? Where do we get funding for the developers to build this? How can we split up the work so that we can get it done as quickly as possible using the right people? Those are all architectural concerns. 

- And, a lot of it comes back to how do we affect these quality attributes. How do we break up the system and divide the responsibilities such that we can ensure reliability, such that we can ensure performance and security? 

- Software architecture process concerns itself primarily with those three things. 

- Estimation; estimating the work and total, deciding how much it's going to take, how long it's going to take, who's going to do it. 

- Focusing on quality; how do we ensure things like reliability and performance especially at this architectural level since those are primarily hardware and developer-focused concerns. 

- And then partitioning; actually dividing the work into subsystems or modules that can then be passed off on to the design stage because then, design stage goes into the actual building of the individual modules.



## Notes


1. Software architecture process concerns itself with estimation, quality and partitioning
    1. Partitioning the responsibilities of the software is only the beginning
    2. Determine the costs and secure funding
    3. Divide work and system with quality in mind
    4. Apply software architectural models to common problems.



## Quizizz

1. The difference between subsystems and modules are:
    1. Subsystems can independently comprise the business logic by itself while modules can't. 
2. Software quality attributes that we care about during software architecture are:
    1. Performance.
    2. Reliability.
    3. Testability.
    4. Security.
    5. Usability.
3. Software architecture concerns itself with both estimation and quality but not partitioning. 


