## Questions and answers

1. Which of the following is considered the most difficult in the software development process? `Accurately identifying user needs`

2. What is a Requirements Specification? 
    1. A process, how the requirements are written (specified)
    2. A product, a written specification of the requirements

3. Based on the NASA statistics on budget and schedule overrun vs. time spent on requirements process, what is the recommended amount of time to spend on the requirements stage? `5-10% of the total time spent on the project`

4. Which of the following matches the terms to the correct definition? ` Requirements - user needs in user language; Specification - solution properties designed to solve problem`

5. Which of these is a user requirement? `Allow the user to post a message to Facebook`

6. Which of the following is NOT an example of a non-functional requirement. `The user shall be able to select the course number.`

7. What element(s) of the WRSPM model belong in the environment (including the overlap between environment and system)? `W,R,S`

8. Which of these is proper definition of software architecture? `partitioning large systems into smaller ones that can be created seperately, have individual business value, and can be easily integrated`

9. Which of the following models is best suited for a system with significant shared data that needs to be shared across a variety of components or sub-systems, somewhat like global variables, but with better data integrity? `blackboard`

10. Which of the following models is best suited for a system that includes several subsets of functionality that are used in more than one area of the system? `pipe-and-filter`

11. Which of the following models is best suited for a system that benefits from the separation of complexity and processing between work which can be done locally and that which should be completed on a shared, remote service? `client-server`

12. Which of the following would be considered a sub-system, rather than a module? `A set of classes which generates reports`
