## Software Design: Coupling


- Hi. now, we'll talk a bit more about coupling in software design. 

- Coupling is all about how tightly coupled one module is to another, but let me explain it in another way. 

- One of the key components of modularity is the idea of decomposability, separating complexity. One way we can control the effects of change on a design is to enforce this separation. 

- When the requirements are changed, and they will be, maybe halfway through our process, we don't want those changes to have massive impacts across the entirety of our system. 

- By enforcing low coupling, what we're hoping to accomplish is that changes don't cross the boundaries of our modules. Ideally, when a requirement changes, and it will, the changes in our code should be contained within a single module. 

- The module tasked with completing that function that's changed. When you produce effective low coupling, changes in one module shouldn't affect the other modules, or should do so as minimally as possible. That's our goal. 

- We accomplish that goal by being attentive to the kinds of coupling we are using between our modules. 

- Even though the monitor is low coupling, high cohesion, we talk about the levels of coupling in terms of loose and tight coupling, those terms make more sense in isolation. 

- The worst, strongest, highest forms of coupling are listed here. Both content and common coupling occur when two modules rely on the same underlying information. 

- Content coupling happens when module A directly relies on the local data members of module B rather than relying on some access or a method. 

- While common coupling happens when module A and module B both rely on some global data or global variable. External coupling is a reliance on an externally imposed format, protocol, or interface. 

- In some cases, this can't be avoided, but it does represent tight coupling, which means that changes here could affect a large number of modules, which is probably not ideal. 

- You might consider, for example, creating some abstraction to deal with the externally imposed format, allowing the various modules to maintain their own format, and delegating the format to the external but into a single entity, depending on whether or not the external format or the internal data will change more often. 

- Control coupling happens when a module can control the logical flow of another by passing in information on what to do or the order in which to do it, a what-to-do flag. 

- Changing the process may then necessitate changes to any module which controlled that part of the process. That's not necessarily good. 

- Data structure coupling occurs when two modules rely on the same composite data structure, especially if the parts the modules rely on are distinct. 

- Changing the data structure could adversely affect the other module, even when the parts of the data structure that were changed aren't necessarily those that were relied on by that other module. 

- And finally, we have the loosest forms of coupling. Data coupling is when only parameters are shared. This includes elementary pieces of data like when you pass an integer to a function to compute the square root. 

- Message coupling is then the loosest type of coupling. It's primarily achieved through state decentralization, and component communication is only accomplished either through parameters or message passing. 

- Now of course, you can have no coupling, but this is usually the trivial case and isn't really of that much interest to us. In any sufficiently complex design, there's going to be multiple modules. 

- We care mostly about how tightly coupled are the modules that do communicate, and not really about the modules that don't and shouldn't communicate anyway, we don't really care about that. 

- The ones that do communicate, those are the ones we're going to focus on. The mantra of low coupling, high cohesion is nice to say and repeat, but the reality of measuring these things means a deeper understanding of what we mean by coupling is necessary. 

- By paying attention to the different types of coupling, you can build better systems, better designs, and better solutions.



## Notes

1. Coupling
    1. Measuring the strength of connections between (sub-)system components
    2. Loose coupling allow for changes to be unlikely to propogate across components
    3. Shared variables and control information lead to tight coupling
    4. Loose coupling achieved by state decentralization and message passing

2. Coupling levels
    1. Tight
        1. Content coupling
        2. Common coupling
        3. External coupling
    2. Medium
        1. Control coupling
        2. Data-structure coupling
    3. Loose
        1. Data coupling
        2. Message coupling
        3. No coupling

3. Coupling measures communication
    1. How well are we protected against requirements change propagation
    2. Measuring the various types of coupling is important
    3. Aim for data and message coupling
    4. Justify anything tighter


## Quizizz

1. Choose the most accurate answer: Low coupling aids in... `ensuring that changes don't cross boundaries of modules.`

2. Which of the following statements about coupling are true?
    1. Coupling measures the strength of connections between components.
    2. Loose coupling makes it unlikely that changes will be propogated across components.
    3. Shared variables and control information leads to tight coupling.
    4. Loose coupling is partly achieved through message passing.

3. The goal in low coupling is to ensure that changes don't cross the boundaries of modules. `True`

4. The three types of tight coupling are: `Content; Common; External`

5. Module A relies directly on local data of module B. This is an example of what type of coupling? `Tight content coupling`

6. Modules A and B both rely on global data or a global variable. This is an example of what type of coupling? `Tight common coupling`

7. Modules rely on externally imposed format (or protocol or interface). This is an example of what type of coupling? `Tight external coupling`

8. The two types of medium coupling are: `Control; Data Structure`

9. Module A controls the logical flow of module B. This is an example of what type of coupling? `Medium control coupling`

10. Module A and B both rely on the same composite data structure. This is an example of what type of coupling? `Medium data structure coupling` 

11. The three types of loose coupling are: `Data; Message; None`

12. Modules only share parameters. This is an example of what type of coupling? `Loose data coupling`

13. The loosest type of coupling; components only communicate through parameters or message passing. This is an example of what type of coupling? `Loose message coupling`