## Software Design: Cohesion


- Hi, now we'll take a closer look at what we mean when we say cohesion.

- Cohesion is really how well everything within a module fits together, how well it works towards a singular purpose. 

- Now this is pretty subjective, in that the context in which you consider the singular purpose makes a big difference. For example, imagine you're building a game as a mobile application. 

- Technically, everything you do is cohesive to the idea that you are building a game. Every line of code works towards that singular goal, from advertising to user accounts to micro-transactions to the game and the graphics themselves. 

- But that's a very high-level categorization. That's why we typically refer to cohesion using various levels of cohesion to better define what we mean when we say cohesion. So let's start with the weakest forms of cohesion.

- Coincidental cohesion is effectively the idea that parts of the module are together just because they are. They are in the same file. If you just throw all the code into one file, technically it's cohesive in that it resides in the exact same file location.

- It's in the same class, for example, in object-oriented programming. But this is ultimately very, very weak cohesion. Its proximity to other code is the only relationship between it and the other. That's not good.

- Temporal cohesion means that the code is activated at the same time, but that's it. That's really the only connection. 

- Being in a module because you're both called at the start isn't a very OO way of looking at the solution.

- Procedural cohesion is similarly time-based and not very strong cohesion. Just because one comes after the other doesn't really tie them together, not necessarily. 

- What if the process flow changes? Again, that's not good. They don't necessarily need to be cohesive in that way.

- Logical association then is the idea that components which perform similar functions are grouped. We're getting less weak, but it's still not good enough. The idea here is that at some level the components do similar, but separate or parallel things. 

- That's not a good reason to combine them in a module. They are considered separate, though similar, for a reason. And so we should separate them.

- Okay, now we're getting somewhere.

- Communicational cohesion means that all elements of the component operate on the same input or produce the same output. This is more than just doing a similar function. It's producing identical types of output or working from a singular input.

- And then sequential cohesion is the stronger form of procedural cohesion. Instead of merely following the other in time, sequential cohesion is achieved when one part of the component is the input to another part of the component. It's a direct handoff and a cohesive identity.

- Finally, we get to the strongest forms of cohesion, your goal as a designer. In object cohesion, we see that each operation in a module is provided to allow the object attributes to be modified or inspected. Every single operation in the module. 

- Each part is specifically designed for purpose within the object itself, that's that object cohesion. And then functional cohesion goes above and beyond sequential cohesion to assure that every part of the component is necessary for the execution of a single well-defined function or behavior. So it's not just input to output, it's everything together is functionally cohesive.

- I also want to make this note. Technically speaking, inheritance weakens cohesion. The idea is being able to have the full understanding of a concept in a single module. When you inherit, you, by design, don't have all the concepts in a single module when you're viewing the code base. 

- You have to go look at the super class files as well. That does make it harder to find detail and goes against the principle of high cohesion. However, that is usually a very easy tradeoff, given the benefits available to us using inheritance.

- The mantra of low coupling, high cohesion is a nice thing to say and repeat, but the reality of measuring these things means a deeper understanding of what we mean by cohesion is necessary. 

- By paying attention to the different types of cohesion, you can build better systems, better designs, and better solutions.



## Notes


1. Cohesion
    1. Measures how well a module's components 'fit together'
    2. Implements a single entity or function
    3. Represents a desirable design attribute
    4. Divides into various levels of strength

2. Cohesion levels
    1. Weak
        1. Coincidental cohesion
        2. Temporal cohesion
        3. Procedural cohesion
        4. Logical association
    2. Medium
        1. Communicational cohesion
        2. Sequential cohesion
    3. Strong
        1. Object cohesion
        2. Functional cohesion

3. Cohesion and inheritance
    1. Technically speaking, inheriting attributes from a super class weakens cohesion
    2. To understand the component, one must examine the super class(es) as well

4. Cohesion is concerned with how well the components of a module serve a single goal
    1. Just having cohesion is not sufficient
    2. Measuring the various types of cohesion is important
    3. Aim for object and functional cohesion
    4. Justify anything less


## Quizizz

1. Choose the most accurate answer: Cohesion describes... `how well everything within a module fits together.`

2. Which of the following statements about cohesion is true?
    1. Cohesion measures how well everything within a module fits together.
    2. Describes the implementation of a single logical entity or function.
    3. Represents a desirable design attitude.
    4. High cohesion is the aim in software development.

3. The goal in real-life software development is to aim for object and functional cohesion and anything less than this should be justified. `True`

4. The four types of weak cohesion are: `Coincidental, temporal, procedural, logical association`

5. Parts of modules are together in the same file. This is an example of what type of cohesion? `Coincidental cohesion`

6. Different pieces of code are activated at the same time. This is an example of what type of cohesion? `Temporal cohesion`

7. One piece of code runs after the other. This is an example of what type of cohesion? `Procedural cohesion`

8. Components do similar but separate things. This is an example of what type of cohesion? `Logical association cohesion`

9. The two types of medium cohesion are: `Communicational, sequential`

10. All elements of a component operate on the same input or produce the same output. This is an example of what type of cohesion? `Communicational Cohesion`

11. One component's output provides the input to another component. This is an example of what type of cohesion? `Sequential Cohesion`

12. The two types of strong cohesion are: `Object, functional`

13. Each operation in a module is provided to allow object attributes to be modified or inspected. This is an example of what type of cohesion? `Object Cohesion`

14. Every part of a component is necessary for a single well-defined behavior. This is an example of what type of cohesion? `Functional Cohesion`

15. True or False: inheritance strengthens cohesion. `False`