## Deployment

- Hi. now, we want to give you an idea of the types of issues that can come up during product deployment. 

- So, deployment is the end stage of active development for any piece of software. And, realistically, it's less of a stage. It's more of a gate. 

- It's an event in between the testing and maintenance stages after it's already in place, but that shouldn't minimize the importance of deployment, especially now, when we start seeing things like automated deployment become so important in our work. 

- The idea of planning for deployment is going to largely be determined by the project scope. That should make sense. But what's important about deployment is not only the planned steps of how you put this product into place. 

- You have to think about some other things. The most important is which of those steps is most likely to have a problem? We've talked before about making sure that you focus on the things that are most error-prone, and this is true for these kinds of process issues as well, just the same as it is in testing or any other part of the process. 

- Make sure that when you're deploying, you've practiced the deployment. When you're deploying, you're making sure that the deployment area is prepared for that deployment. 

- And even more important than that, you have to make sure that you're planned for recovery. One of the issues that we had in the business that I used to work in was that we were not allowed to even begin a production deployment unless our recovery plans had been approved by change management. 

- So there's an entire team of people that look over our plans for how we're going to install the software, but not only that, the plan set up in advance of how we're going to roll that back, how we're going to get out of it if we somehow screw it up when we do try to install it because if you're installing something on production, a production system that's supposed to be up 24/7, servicing millions of customers every hour, you can't have the system entirely go down. 

- You need to have a plan to roll those changes back to make sure that the system can get back into a working state if whatever you were planning to do doesn't end up working. 

- So when you're talking about your deployment plan, these are the different concerns you should think of. And maybe, you should go so far as to say that these are your sections for your plan document. It's the physical environment. 

- What machines are you going to use? How are you going to actually put this onto something? So the physical environment and the hardware, where are you going to put it? Data center 1, data center 2 and the actual hardware, the servers that are being run, and is there any difference between testing and production that you need to be aware about when you're doing the installs? 

- Documentation, if you don't have documentation in many large-scale companies, you don't make a change in deployment. You don't make a change in production. 

- So this kind of documentation is very important, and oftentimes is reviewed by a team of people before you even get close to installing new software. And then there's training. You should not put to your newest developers the idea of production deployment. 

- I've heard horror stories, to be honest with you, about people doing that to companies. These should be your best developers. If you're deploying to production, make sure that they know what they're doing. And if not, you need to make sure that they are trained properly before they go and do this. 

- Database-related activities tend to be a little bit more of a pain than some of the other issues when you're doing this kind of thing. Working in the database isn't usually as easy as drop something here, use an installer. 

- You usually have to update a database and potentially its structure when you make changes to its production system, making sure that those database-related activities have also been fully flushed out, have a rollback plan, is important. 

- What we're talking about really is production deployment, deployment to users. And it's really focused on how to deliver and how to revert when that doesn't work out very well. 

- You need to have a plan. In advance, know what you're going to do to install it and how you're going to undo all of your problems should something occur like that where you have to roll it back.



## Notes


1. Deployment stage occurs at the end
    1. Deployment means production deployment, release to users
    2. Occurs after testing/QA and other have signed off on release

2. Deployment planning
    1. Largely determined by project scope
    2. Includes planned steps, problems areas, and plans to recover

3. Deployment plan concerns (section?)
    1. Physical environment
    2. Hardware
    3. Documentation
    4. Training
    5. Database-related activities
    6. 3rd party software
    7. Software being deployed

4. Software deployment is the event of launching your product to users
    1. Primarily focused on how to deliver and how to revert on failure
    2. Deployment without rollback plans shouldn't happen
    3. Document your rollback plans for error-reduced action under fire
    4. Consider all aspects of the environment when writing the plan



## Quizizz

1. Deployment occurs in the end stage of active development. `True`

2. Product deployment should encapsulate three main focus areas.  What are they?
    1. Planned steps
    2. Problem areas
    3. Plan for recovery in case of failure

3. Concerns to address in your deployment plan include:
    1. Physical environment requirements
    2. Hardware requirements
    3. Documentation
    4. 3rd party software requirements
    5. Training
    6. Software being deployed
    7. Database-related activities