## Deployment: Rollback


- Hi, now, we're going to talk a little bit about rollback procedures as it pertains to software deployment. 

- Deployment is end stage of active development for any piece of software. In fact, it's less of a stage and more like the event between testing and maintenance. 

- Rollback is what happens when that deployment doesn't go as you intended. We have to have a plan for how we're going to reverse the actions we were making when it doesn't go the way we thought it was going to. 

- We had a process in place at my old employer that, for example, if you wanted to make any change to production, 2 weeks before you are going to make that change with a 2 week lead time, you need to give them the plan for what you're going to do but also, you had to have an approved rollback plan. 

- That is, you had to say, here's the steps we're going to do to install, here's what we're going to do to configure here's how we're going to change the database, and here are the exact steps that we're going to do, all the way down to these are the commands I'm going to run in order to reverse the actions so that if at any point in the installation something goes horribly wrong, I already have a script that I will follow in order to back out the changes. 

- That these changes, these commands have been approved by my manager and potentially a couple of managers above that, and potentially other area managers like database managers and system managers. 

- That these commands will work to roll back the changes I'm trying to make. Because the worst thing that can happen is to get into the middle of an install and then everyone says, "Oh, it's not working, what do we do? " You're eventually, unfortunately, sometimes left with a system that just doesn't work at all because there is no plan to move forward and no plan to move back. 

- There's lots of reasons why you roll-back, but most of them have something to do with things not going quite the way you expected them to. There's problems that take longer to debug and fix, then you have time for. 

- It's still something that you probably could fix and you might already know how, but if you need production back on line by a certain time and you aren't sure, for example, that you'll be able to get it fixed on time, you might consider rolling back. 

- The real purpose is to keep production alive. When we're talking about these kinds of deployments, we're talking about deploying to production. 

- A system that needs to be up for certain amounts of time. So a rollback procedure is something you put in place so that you know what you're going to do when it doesn't work. 

- There's always a point of no return. There's at some point rolling back is going to take longer than you have. That's going to be the problem. 

- There's this tipping point of well, we're past this point of no return, we have to push through. Because backing out is going to take longer, potentially, cost more, and we're still going to end up, if we back out, not having a system that's up to date. So, we might as well just push forward. 

- You should really know this point before going in and double-check right before you get there that once we pass that point, we are going to keep going. That maybe we should roll back now and you do a double check a go/no-go right before that point of no return.

- Rollback is the primary concern of deployment. The thing about rollback is that you have to know what you're going to do to back the system out, and there's a lot of ways it can happen. 

- There are things like when you've added new files, you delete them, when you've copied new files, you remove the other copy, those seem relatively straightforward. 

- But what about database updates? What about deleting files? Once you delete them, they're gone. So how do you prevent the actual deletion until a little bit later? Thinking about those kinds of things so that you have the ability to roll back is a big part of the engineering process when we talk about deployment.



## Notes


1. What is a rollback?
    1. The reversal of actions, completed during deployment, with the intent to revert a system back to its previous working state

2. Why rollback?
    1. Installation did not go as expected
    2. Problems would take longer to debug/fix than installation window
    3. Keep production system alive

3. Know your point-of-no-return
    1. At some point, rolling back will take lonnger (and/or cost more) than pushing through
    2. If at all possible, know this point prior to initializing the deployment
    3. Just prior to reaching the point, verify that a rollback is not the best course of action

4. Rollback is the primary concern of deployment
    1. A matter of "when"...not "if"
    2. Deployment without rollback plans shouldn't happen
    3. Deployment without the possibility of rollback need special attention
    4. Be sure to determine your point of no return before you begin



## Quizizz


1. A rollback is the reversal of actions completed during deployment with the intent to never revert a system back to its previous working state. `False`

2. What are some reasons why you would need a rollback plan?  Select two.
    1. Installation doesn't go as expected.
    2. Fixing the problem ends up taking longer than the window allows.

3. Deployment without a rollback plan should occasionally occur. Especially when the installation involves deleting files. `False`