## Deployment: Cutover Strategies


- Hi, now we're going to be talking about some deployment strategies, in particular cutover strategies. How we go about creating reliable system deployments, and especially updates. 

- So I'm going to talk a little bit about the potential cutover strategies and tie them a little bit to my experience in the field. 

- So at the very bottom, the first cutover strategy you should consider is cold back-up, sometimes also called cold storage. Now this is the case where you really don't have anything ready, but you have potentially, for example, the physical hardware. 

- You have a separate server ready to go. So for example, if you happen to have geolocation separation where you have a data center in, for example, like we did here in Minnesota and another one in Arizona. 

- If the data center in Minnesota goes down, you can make a call to the data center in Arizona. They will spool up a physical machine, give you access. 

- You will go in and transfer all the data, transfer all the applications, install the applications, configure. And then potentially, depending on how well you have your data backed up, do data replication onto this cold backup storage device. 

- Now from our perspective, when we were going through the idea of which cutover strategy should we employ, we decided okay, how long is that going to take? How much money is it going to cost us to keep a cold backup storage ready to go? Which was relatively cheap. 

- But how long would it take us to recover from a failure? If Minnesota's data center did go down and that took our entire application with us, how long would it take to get the new version in, for example, Arizona, up and running and working again in production-ready format? We decided that it would take approximately 24 hours and that seems to be a good average for something like a cold backup storage for a large scale software system. 

- If you have thousands of transactions an hour, that's a pretty big system that's going to be taking care of it. It's likely going to take you 24 hours to get all the approvals, all the installations, all the configurations up to date and then data replication over, verify the installation, test it out, and then deploy it. 

- So we decided that that was going to take us about 24 hours. 

- That's what cold backup would look like. We decided that was, in our instance of course since we're taking thousands of transactions per hour, that was just not going to cut it. 

- That's not going to be good enough for what we wanted to deploy in our system. So we went one ring up the ladder.

- Warm standby then is quite different. Warm standby means that you actually have a running machine ready to go. So you already have it apportioned. 

- You already have it, for example, installed on location or in the example of virtual machines, you have something where you could very easily one-click turn on the machine. 

- Now, this is where the definition gets a little bit fuzzy. So it depends on what you mean when you say warm standby. Some people when they say this mean that that's all it is. It's the hardware that's there. You still need to deploy and install. There are some people that say it's actually there and when you turn it on, all of the application installers, all the configuration is already in place. 

-You need to merely do the install or do the configuration step to get it up and running. So it depends on who you talk to when you talk about warm standby. Now again, that still means that our data wouldn't be there. And since we're taking so many transactions in every time frame, we still needed at least some data replication to move across. 

- Remember that this is warm standby. It's not actually running, so it can't really do effective data replication. Again, that's a bit of a gray area, but for our definition it wasn't going to be accepting data replication, so we still needed to replicate all the data.

- From a warm standby approach where we decided it would mean that the machine was there and that, indeed, whenever we installed a new version of production code, we would also update the warm standby. We would turn it on, update the software, turn it back off. 

- So at least everything was installed and configured. We could just turn it on and then somehow do data replication, do any minor configuration changes that were necessary, and redirect the traffic. 

- We decided that in that instance, warm standby would take between 2 and 4 hours. We're including the amount of time it takes for us to decide that there is an issue that's bad enough that we need to do warm standby. 

- Which could take up to 15 to 30 minutes depending on the person that's on call and the time that it happens, to get the decision approved, that yes we're moving to warm standby, as well as configuration, data replication, turning it on, testing that it works before we launch truly production-ready. 

- We decided it would be between 2 and 4 hours. Again, we decided that was not good enough for our purposes. When you're taking in thousands of transactions, 2 to 4 hours is still thousands of transactions, tens of thousands, potentially hundreds of thousands of transactions. And that is a big risk. 

- We weren't ready to take on that risk. So we went even one step further. Hot failover is the final cutover strategy that we'll be talking about today. A hot failover system is everything. 

- The machine or virtual machine is up, ready, running. The systems themselves are up, ready, waiting for transactions but they just don't receive the information. 

- This is different than load balancing. Load balancing says that you use a set of production servers that are all supposedly identical and you distribute load across all of them. 

- A hot failover in its purest sense doesn't do that. It means that it's truly a system that data does not go to even though it could handle it at any moment.

- This included for our purposes the definition that a hot failover for us means that data was constantly being replicated. So on a 5 minute delay, our data was constantly being replicated to our hot failover site, even though transactions were not, I should say, production-live incoming requests were not going to the hot failover site. The resulting data was being replicated across multiple sites. 

- So our hot failover site was sitting there, waiting for transactions. That means that we could use our, I mean effectively a redirector, but you could call it your load balancer, you could call it something else, merely to change its configuration, to merely redirect the input to our hot failover site. 

- So, in a matter of minutes, we can make the call, decide and hit a switch, potentially in a configuration file or a single database field, that automatically redirects input from our external services into our new hot failover site, so that it will take us, we imagine less than 30 minutes to make the switch. 

- We have a 15 minute call window for on-call production support. For example, when it was my turn to be on call, I had to be within 15 minutes of having my machine up and on and me logged in, so no matter where I went, I couldn't be more than 15 minutes minus how long it takes me to get my computer ready, away from my computer when I'm on call. It takes another 15 minutes to decide and flip the switch. 

- We decided that that 30 minutes was good enough, that the data that we would have to replicate would be small enough. Only one or two 15 minute windows, which is how granular our time windows went, would need to be additionally replicated if that data was lost in between production going down and hot failover getting the redirect. 

- This is something that we use quite a bit. And I'll talk about BCP, that's our business continuity plan. None of these cutover strategies actually work unless you've tested it. The worst thing you can do is have to go through one of these cutovers and it not work. 

- So you have to test it. In fact, for our purposes, we did a hot failover test once every quarter. Every 3 months we actually hit a switch and send everything over to hot failover, and it ran for a full day. We usually also coordinated this with additional updates, and that's how our production server got updated. 

- We would hot failover, make sure that worked, that was our BCP test. Then we would update production, you would hot failover back to production, make sure the updates work properly so that we could roll back just by firing back over to hot failover. 

- If we decided that production was good, we would make the same set of updates to hot failover, and again they would just be sitting there running. 

- Production taking data and hot failover just waiting for information.

- There's a big difference between load balancing and cutover, and especially when it comes to hot failover. What we are really talking about is a geolocation separation. That they're truly in separate places, and that the hot failover does not receive data. 

- If you have a load balancing system that has geolocation separation, and it's constantly sending data to multiple places, we don't technically consider that a hot failover. 

- That's just geolocation separation in terms of load balancing, and that's certainly good, and that very well could be a good way of doing it. 

- The problem from our perspective was, if for example one of them did go down, are we sure and how do we know which data to replicate across? That was one of the biggest problems that we had and we solved it by saying this hot failover site is not being used, and all data can be replicated one direction. 

- That saved us a lot of bandwidth, a lot of processing, and a lot of worry in how we set up our cutover process. So I hope that these three cutover strategies are now a little bit more clear and you have a good idea of how you might go about thinking about them if you wanted to implement something like this for your system.





## Notes

1. Cutover strategies
    1. Cold back-up (storage)
    2. Warm standby
    3. Hot failover

2. Software cutover is a trade-off between cost and preparedness
    1. Speed of recovery is directly propotiona to cost of recovery
    2. Hot failover allows you to redirect live data with minimal
    3. Warm standby has services ready for initialization
    4. Cold back-up is a replacement machine needing full setup



## Quizizz

1. The three cutover strategies are...
    1. Cold backup
    2. Warm standby
    3. Hot failover

2. If you need to have a cutover strategy where the replacement machine is ready for a full setup and install, then you would choose which of the following cutover strategies? `
Cold backup`

3. If you need to have a cutover strategy where the replacement services are ready for the redirection of data with no installation, then you would choose which of the following cutover strategies? `Hot failover`

4. If you need to have a cutover strategy where the replacement machine is running and ready for installation, then you would choose which of the following cutover strategies? `Warm standby`

5. There is no difference between load balancing and hot failover. `false`